IDMapping field for mount point (#1143)
opencontainers/runtime-spec: config.md

* **`type`** (string, OPTIONAL) The type of the filesystem to be mounted.
    * Linux: filesystem types supported by the kernel as listed in */proc/filesystems* (e.g., "minix", "ext2", "ext3", "jfs", "xfs", "reiserfs", "msdos", "proc", "nfs", "iso9660"). For bind mounts (when `options` include either `bind` or `rbind`), the type is a dummy, often "none" (not listed in */proc/filesystems*).
    * Solaris: corresponds to "type" of the fs resource in [zonecfg(1M)][zonecfg.1m].
* **`uidMappings`** (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL) The mapping to convert UIDs from the source file system to the destination mount point.\
The format is the same as [user namespace mappings](config-linux.md#user-namespace-mappings).
* **`gidMappings`** (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL) The mapping to convert GIDs from the source file system to the destination mount point.
For more details see `uidMappings`.

> 

Reviewer: Is there any specific reason that we don't have this for rootfs?

Reviewer 2: Also, the spec currently says the runtime should not modify the rootfs permissions: https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/main/config-linux.md#user-namespace-mappings

> The runtime SHOULD NOT modify the ownership of referenced filesystems to realize the mapping.

> * **`uidmappings` (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL). The file system mapping to convert uid and gid from value written in the container's image into desired value. This mapping contains of following fields: ContainerID, HostID, Size. These values would be written into temporary user namespace's /proc/$pid/uid_map and /proc/$pid/gid_map as followes "ContainerID HostID Size". The uid and gid of the image file system would be mapped inside kernel from ContainerdID to HostID. The Size field is a range for mapping, as an example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **`uidMappings`**, **`gidMappings`**  (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL). The file system mapping used to convert UIDs and GIDs from the source file system. This mapping contains the following fields: ContainerID, HostID, Size. These values would be written into temporary user namespace's /proc/$pid/uid_map and /proc/$pid/gid_map as follows "ContainerID HostID Size". The UID and GID of the source file system are mapped inside the kernel from ContainerID to HostID. The Size field is a range for mapping, as an example.
```

Reviewer 2: Would it be written to /proc/$pid/uid_map? I don't know what pid refers to here, but if it is the container pid and the container userns uses a different mapping, I guess that is not true?

Can't we just avoid mentioning those implementation details?

Reviewer 3: probably that is better, let's avoid the implementation details

> * **`uidmappings` (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL). The file system mapping to convert uid and gid from value written in the container's image into desired value. This mapping contains of following fields: ContainerID, HostID, Size. These values would be written into temporary user namespace's /proc/$pid/uid_map and /proc/$pid/gid_map as followes "ContainerID HostID Size". The uid and gid of the image file system would be mapped inside kernel from ContainerdID to HostID. The Size field is a range for mapping, as an example.

Reviewer 2: Missing gidMappings?

Author: yes, it was questionable. For gidMapping I'll just add short reference to uidMapping.

> * **`uidmappings` (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL). The file system mapping to convert uid and gid from value written in the container's image into desired value. This mapping contains of following fields: ContainerID, HostID, Size. These values would be written into temporary user namespace's /proc/$pid/uid_map and /proc/$pid/gid_map as followes "ContainerID HostID Size". The uid and gid of the image file system would be mapped inside kernel from ContainerdID to HostID. The Size field is a range for mapping, as an example.

Reviewer 2: Please follow the convention of one sentence per line

* **`type`** (string, OPTIONAL) The type of the filesystem to be mounted.
    * Linux: filesystem types supported by the kernel as listed in */proc/filesystems* (e.g., "minix", "ext2", "ext3", "jfs", "xfs", "reiserfs", "msdos", "proc", "nfs", "iso9660"). For bind mounts (when `options` include either `bind` or `rbind`), the type is a dummy, often "none" (not listed in */proc/filesystems*).
    * Solaris: corresponds to "type" of the fs resource in [zonecfg(1M)][zonecfg.1m].
* **`uidMappings`** (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL) The mapping to convert UIDs from the source file system to the destination mount point.
This mapping contains the following fields: ContainerID, HostID, Size.
The Size field is a range for mapping, as an example.
        1000 1001 1       -> map UID 1000 to uid 1001 in <target> and no other UIDs

>         20000 100000 1000 -> map UID 20000 to uid 100000, uid 20001 to UID 100001 [...] until UID 20999 in <target>

Reviewer 4: The formatting here renders a little bit odd (all squashed together into a single paragraph). :grimacing:

Reviewer 4: Since this `LinuxIDMapping` isn't a new type, is there somewhere else this description should perhaps go?

Author: I fixed formatting, just adding new line.
Do you suggest to add reference to some man page or commit message of kernel's patch?

Reviewer 5: > Since this LinuxIDMapping isn't a new type, is there somewhere else this description should perhaps go?

@AlexeyPerevalov I guess that @tianon means that the format description should also be added to the existing documentation that mentions/uses LinuxIDMapping. Specifically, this is https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/main/config-linux.md#user-namespace-mappings

Now I see that the way you describe it is the way it is expected by the kernel (three space-separated values). In here, we use three named fields, so space-separated format makes less sense.

I guess you can just ditch the example, instead referring to https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec/blob/main/config-linux.md#user-namespace-mappings

* **`type`** (string, OPTIONAL) The type of the filesystem to be mounted.
    * Linux: filesystem types supported by the kernel as listed in */proc/filesystems* (e.g., "minix", "ext2", "ext3", "jfs", "xfs", "reiserfs", "msdos", "proc", "nfs", "iso9660"). For bind mounts (when `options` include either `bind` or `rbind`), the type is a dummy, often "none" (not listed in */proc/filesystems*).
    * Solaris: corresponds to "type" of the fs resource in [zonecfg(1M)][zonecfg.1m].

> * **`uidmappings` (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL) The file system mapping to convert uid from value written in the container's image into desired value.
> This mapping contains of following fields: ContainerID, HostID, Size.
> These values would be written into temporary user namespace's /proc/$pid/uid_map as followes "ContainerID HostID Size".
> The uid of the image file system would be mapped inside kernel from ContainerdID to HostID.
> The Size field is a range for mapping, as an example.
>         1000 1001 1       -> map uid 1000 to uid 1001 in <target> and no other ids
>         20000 100000 1000 -> map uid 20000 to uid 100000, uid 20001 to uid 100001 [...] until uid 20999 in <target>
> Currently up to 340 separate idmappings may be specified by the kernel.
> * **`gidmappings` (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL) The file system mapping to convert gid from value written in the container's image into desired value.
> For more details see `uidmappings`.
> 

Reviewer 3: please use **uidMappings** and **gidMappings** (with uppercase M and the missing closing **).

We shouldn't mention "container's image" since the mapping is performed from the source file system (and runtime specs don't know about images).

I'd use something simpler as the following:

```suggestion
* **`uidMappings`** (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL) The mapping to convert UIDs from the source file system to the destination mount point.
This mapping contains the following fields: ContainerID, HostID, Size.
The Size field is a range for mapping, as an example.
        1000 1001 1       -> map UID 1000 to uid 1001 in <target> and no other UIDs
        20000 100000 1000 -> map UID 20000 to uid 100000, uid 20001 to UID 100001 [...] until UID 20999 in <target>
* **`gidMappings`** (array of type LinuxIDMapping, OPTIONAL) The mapping to convert GIDs from the source file system to the destination mount point.
For more details see `uidMappings`.

```
